I am Danylo born in 1201 in Halych, western
Ukraine. I am the prince of Volhynia,
Galicia, and the Principality of
Galicia-Volhynia of the Romanovych dynasty.
I am also known as the king of Rus’.
After the death of my father,
Prince Roman Mstyslavych, in 1205,
unrest among the boyars forced me to take refuge
at the Hungarian court with my mother and brother.
Following a long struggle with
neighboring princes and Galician boyars,
I unified Volhynia and gained control over Halych
in 1238, with the support of the burghers. The
next year I took Kyiv. My influence reached to the
Turiv-Pynsk principality and the Dorohychyn land.
My plans to unify Ukrainian territories were
interfered by the Mongol destruction of Kyiv,
Volodymyr and Halych. I was nevertheless able
to defeat a coalition of the Chernihiv princes,
disaffected boyars, and their Hungarian and
Polish allies at the Battle of Yaroslav and
finally established my control over Galicia.
In order to save my state, I was compelled to
recognize khan's suzerainty. I sent
raids against the Mongols' vassals,
built fortifications, and sought alliances in
the West, particularly with Pope Innocent IV. The
later alliance did not bring the aid I had hoped
for and had no practical consequences. In 1254 I
repulsed a Mongol attack on Ponyzia and Volhynia.
The Mongol leader, Burundai, led a new campaign
in 1260, forcing me to dismantle my fortifications
and abandon my plans for independence.
I was an exceptionally gifted ruler. For a time,
I unified the western territories of Ukraine.
I built a number of new cities,
including my new capital, Kholm,
and Lviv. Also, I reformed the military forces,
creating a heavy infantry based on the peasantry;
and gained control over the boyars.
By my death in 1264,
I had reconstructed and expanded the
territories held by my father, held off
the expansionist threats of Poland and Hungary,
minimized Mongol influence on Western Ukraine,
and raised the economic and social standards of
my domains. Let our nation glow till eternity.